# Billing

## Serverless

### Billing items

EMQX Cloud Serverless is billed as per the usage of the deployment, which are the **session minutes** of the clients and **traffic** generated by the message. You will be granted with a free quota at the beginning of each month and only have to pay after the free quota runs out. 


### Billing method

The bill is calculated based on the fees accumulated in the previous 24 hours, with collections taking place at 0:00 daily. You can go to the [Billings](../billing/overview.md) page in EMQX cloud console to find the details.

::: tip

Assume in a 24-hour billing period,  a user has 120 sessions for 10 hours, 20 sessions for 10 hours, and 0 sessions for 4 hours, the total session minutes are: 120 * 60 * 10 + 20 * 60 * 10 + 0 = 84,000, and the session fee is 0 if this falls within the free quota. If the free quota has run out, the session fee will be 84,000 / 1,000,000 * 2 = 0.168, rounded up to $ 0.17.
The traffic is calculated in the same way as the session.
:::


## Dedicated

EMQX Cloud Dedicated Edition is charged based on product version, instance specifications, and network traffic for message transmission. There is no limit on the number of messages, API calls, or data integrations used. You can choose the appropriate product and specifications based on your business needs, ensuring that costs remain clear and controllable even as your business expands.

The billing plan consists of two parts:

| Item         | Description                                                  |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| Base Fee    | The base cost of the instance is calculated based on the hourly unit price corresponding to the product plan and instance specifications (maximum connections, message TPS) selected at the time of deployment. In practice, this part of the cost is only related to the length of time, and will not change due to changes in usage (number of connections, message TPS).
| Traffic Fee | Each instance specification includes a certain amount of free traffic. The free traffic is valid for the month and will be automatically emptied at the end of the month if there is any remaining traffic. When the device traffic exceeds the amount of free traffic, the excess will be charged. |

When you create a deployment, the deployment will estimate the usage cost based on your selected instance specifications. You can check the estimated price on the confirmation page before you deploy.

::: tip Note
When you create a deployment, EMQX Cloud will estimate the usage cost based on your instance specification selection, and you can see the estimated price on the confirmation page before the deployment.
:::



## Billing Period

EMQX Cloud deployments are charged hourly and on the 1st of each month, your credit card will be charged for the previous month's deployment usage. You can go to the [Billing Page](<https://cloud-intl.emqx.com/console/billing/overview>) of the console to see the detailed information.



## Overdue Bills

When the balance is insufficient, EMQX Cloud will send a balance shortage reminder email to the registered email address. You can continue to work with your deployment after you pay the bill. Note: EMQX will stop and delete the deployment instance (after confirming ) after the bill is overdue. To avoid an impact on business, please pay attention to the billing information.
