# Introduction
The deployment is an EMQ X cluster managed by the EMQ X Cloud



## [Price Estimation](./calculator.md)
Check out the prices per hour for EMQ X Cloud supported Cloud providers, regions, and deployments of different specifications.


## [Create a New Deployment](./create_deployment.md)
Step-by-step guide for creating a new EMQ X Cloud deployment.



## Deployment
View and manage all the deployments that you create.


### [Deployment Overview](./view_deployment.md)
View the deployment connection address, port and status.


### [Authentication & ACL](./auth_and_acl.md)
Add and import MQTT authentication and ACL information.

### [Rule Engine](../rule_engine/introduction.md)
Flow device or client data to the database and elsewhere by adding rules and resources.

### [Monitor](./monitors.md)
View the deployment device or client connection information, subscription status.

### [Metrics](./metrics.md)
View metrics such as deployment history connections, messages, package, etc.

### [Logs](./logs.md)
View the logs generated by the deployment.

### [Alerts](./alerts.md)
Timely access to alarm information through configuring email and other methods.

## Security features and settings

### [TLS/SSL Configure](security_features_and_settings/tls_ssl.md)
The exclusive deployment allows you to customize both one-way and two-way TLS/SSL connections.


### [VPC peering connections setting](security_features_and_settings/vpc_peering.md)
Enables internal and external communication between deployments and your business machines by creating peer connections for exclusive deployments.


### [NAT Gateway settings](security_features_and_settings/nat.md)
Enable the deployment to access public network resources by creating NAT gateways for exclusive deployments.


## [Scaling deployment specifications](./upgrade_deployment.md)
Upgrade or reduce deployment specifications based on demand


## [Pause and Delete Deployment](./delete_deployment.md)

Pause, resume or delete existing deployments.








